Early Spring, 255
	Gave the vampire a custom profession just to be sure.
	Began plans for vampire factory.
	Renamed a few professions.
		Farmers and peasants are now "misc"
			before, farmers didn't even farm
	built a few cage traps near the entrance to take the edge off of invasions a bit

Mid Spring, 255
	Hunting down and destroying extraneous garbage zones.
		"Mommy, why are you pulling that lever?"
		Ushrir Destinymine: "Well, Zuglar, I'm stabbing a vampire to death so that the fort can have an endless supply of immortal soldiers. I would have just stabbed him once, but he refused to move out of the way for the new blood well we're going to make. Kept saying something about a broken leg."

Late Spring, 255
	Some idiot starting cleaning up the vampire blood. Fortunately I stopped them in time.
	Now to choose I prototype. I picked Thikut Neutralknife because she wasn't doing anything important. Interestingly, she has a baby. I am intrigued to see if the baby exhibits signs of vampirism later. Plus, she absolutely detests leeches. Amusing.
	I've started slaughtering animals just because I'm sick of all the combat log spam. I will leave enough for breeding purposes.

14 Felsite, 255
	Sometimes, a problem just solves itself. Today, an ambush arrived at the same time as an Elven caravan. This will mean more tribute to the mountainhomes this autumn.
	The cage traps weren't as useful as I'd hoped. The axedwarves seemed perfectly happy to charge over them instead of holding back and letting them do their work.
	The invasion went poorly. We lost a few dwarves. Some better planning should help for next time.

Early Summer
	Due to dwarves refusing to dump food in, the prototype almost starved to death before drinking from the blood well. Temporary setback. The prototype has been released for now.

Midsummer
	You'd think that it wouldn't take a fort of 137 dwarves to clean up a mess after an invasion like the one we got. But apparently it does.

12 Galena, 255
	It seems we have a volunteer. While attempting to trick the prototype back into the blood well chamber (which admittedly wasn't the most likely to succeed plan, given the circumstances), a dwarven child by the name of Catten Spatterplank drank from the well of his own free will. This dwarf is only two years old and already he has demonstrated notable ambition. He is basically unbreakable, unbelievably strong, amazingly agile and quick to heal. 
	Unfortunately, there's a catch: vampirism stops aging. Catten Spatterplank will be a two year old child forever. 