Reinders, fourth year of the fortress, Granite 1, 254
Granite 1: After a year of mediocrity, followed by a bloody rout of our builders, I took receipt of the fortress. Bodies litter the surface. Goblin squads made short work of the military and civilians. No warning bell was rung. It's a massacre, a tragedy rarely seen in this scale. The goblins will pay. But I'm not going out there. No, fuck that, we're staying down here, behind our wall of traps, until those goblins disappear and we might have a chance.

We need towers. Crossbow towers. But I fear this ice is going to melt before we get the chance, and I don't know what we'll do then. I'm not organizing an aquifer punch. No, no, no. Just not going to happen.

Our whole farm organization is insane. Basically, we don't have one at all. We have no textile industry at all - not sure how anyone expects to get anything done without bags. Bags - one in every room.

Did I mention the surface? It's a horror movie. The corpses of soldiers, indicated only by the shiny metal badges they'd pulled out and pinned to their worn clothing, strew the outer entrance. Just let the goblins hit the traps! That's what they're there for. But no, no, now we have corpses.

And no rail system exists in here. I need to build one. I don't know the first thing about physics, but I know design, so I'm not going to build automation - leave that for whoever fucks up the lives of hundreds when I'm gone. My goal, pure and simple, is to see us through tomorrow.

To-Do list
H X	Sound the fucking alarm already 
H 	Mine cart path
H	Sort out farming
M	Organize workshops
M	Kick-start textiles
L	Quern

Granite 2: Why the hell are we making rose gold? What a waste of good gold and good copper.

Granite 1: Why the hell are we making rose gold? What a waste of good gold and good copper.

OH GOD THE BODIES.


To-Do list
H X	Sound the fucking alarm already 
H	Memorialize inaccessible dead
H	Carefully access accessible dead
M 	Mine cart path
M	Sort out farming
M	Organize workshops
M	Kick-start textiles
L	Quern

Granite 6: Some idiot decided to make armor out of gold.

Granite 12: BARONY, BITCHES! Aw, man, after that disaster, I thought our fortress was doomed. Of course, the loser who killed thirty dwarves gets it - maybe I should just kill him off. Oh, but murder is baaaaaaaad. It's punishable seveeeeeerely. God, I sound like my mother.

But I'm still in fucking charge, so suck it, Retard Leader.

Granite 14: AGH, FUCK. FUCK FUCKITY FUCK FUCK I'M GOING TO PUNCH SOMETHING. WHAT IS THIS FUCKING FORTRESS FUCK I HATE EVERYTHING

21st Granite: Actually made the outside a wall - well, part of it. There are still goblins to the north, but they're too stupid to rush the fortress and get chewed apart by the weapons traps. I apologize, my precious notebook, for the rage a week ago. I was having a really shitty day. The left south side of the map is totally sealed off, now - except for one wall well away from a goblin crossbowman with no bolts stuck in a pit, which still manages to fuck up every job that occurs anywhere in the fortress. Dwarves, he's for taunting, not for cowering in fear from. Remedied by restricting the viewing area, so only idiots with something to prove will walk up.

Checkpoint

Slate 3: Goblins strike! The scum lining our fortress, standing on a hill and waiting to pounce, saw a mother with her child and decided to attack, with superior weapons and numbers. One such goblin was incapacitated before we yelled "YOU'RE CONSCRIPTED" at which point the mine-worker beat the second macegoblin around the head, while holding a baby. Her completely-lost arm will be a thing of legend, and she will be given a hero's welcome when she gets back from stabbing the unconscious goblin. This is truly a glorious day. Maybe she should go take out that crossbowgoblin down there.

Slate 4: Muddled reports have come in about the hero of the day, taking out two goblins to save her baby's life, armed with nothing but her pick. She is fine; tragically, it's her baby who will grow up missing an arm. Her, and her baby's, sacrifices have saved us all. On interview, Udil Dastotisan said "It was exhilarating. There's nothing like the rush from headbutting a goblin and beating another one to death." Ast Zansongerush was heard, upon hearing the news, to say "Praise the miners! Today we are saved."

Slate 19: Eh.

Checkpoint

Felsite 7: Started making the drop shaft. I'll HAVE to organize it better, but it'll get ores moved a little bit faster. I can organize the movements via stockpile and make the whole system of management a little more efficient. Forgot, but I'm going to put a peasant in the forges - gotta move those bars around eventually.

Felsite 21: TROGDOOOOOOR! We had a visit from our second dragon. All dwarves were safe, save the broker, who died in the crossfire of a noble effort on the part of the dragon to burn elves and their goods as thoroughly as possible. Unfortunately for the dragon, there were weapons traps in the way. Unfortunately for us, we didn't catch a dragon. Unfortunately for the elves, no one cares about fucking elves. We may go to war soon.

Checkpoint

Hematite 10: Lost our armorer to a vampire. Found drained of blood in the forges. This will not stand! And now we're going to have a very hard time armoring our military.

Malachite 9: You know what? Fuck this shit. A peasant came up to me and said he was sad that he had to stand and eat his food. I showed him my "office" and threw him to the GROOOOOUUUUUND.
Then I flipped half the tables in the dining hall and stormed off to my room. Not my best moment.

Malachite 23: Vampire hunt: I am looking for "dwarves" with a huge number of associations (past civilizations of which that dwarf was a part). This is a strong indicator of vampirism, because it is a strong indicator of age. Age isn't foolproof, but vampires tend to last for a while.

Checkpoint

Galena 14: The humans have sent us a vampire. Are they hinting at something?

Limestone 4: A goblin siege of no note, except that it interfered with the caravans. Time to bridge up the outer walls and close them off when goblins attack.

Limestone 21: Sarvesh Lolokdomas has no eating or drinking, has been moving slowly due to the scarcity of alcohol, and has only complained of the lack of dining tables lately, without having eaten in a legendary dining room. That reminds me, we need more dining tables. I think my patience may have paid off. A crossbow tower, just add bolts?

Timber 4: Fortress was actually out of booze. Just a managerial oversight. More farms, multiple economies in place. Furniture/magnetite highway in place. More to come!

Onol Bubnusrigoth, the child with no lower right arm, is doing fine.

Timber 27: Dwarves arrived! I might not get everything we want from them, because the carts did not; misjudged buildings interfered. Still, everything's going well.

Checkpoint.

Shorast Atirarzes can't even remember the last time she had some. She is not even thirsty. She is a vampire. No wonder we lost our armorsmith.

She's locked in a room.

Opal 2: Today I realized that one of the military dwarves was a vampire, because a speardwarf ghost was wandering the halls, but after a memorial service for the deaths of last year, the ghost is gone.

The fortress is running very smoothly. I think it's time for another

Checkpoint

"Id Fikodudil, Doe Rabbit (Tame) has given birth to bunnies." I don't fucking care.

Obsidian 14: Congratulations, Count FreakyCheeseMan! As we all know, our Count was burnt out at the end of last year, having suffered through the ambushes and dragons. With the cunning use of flags, we have had a much more casualty-free year this time around. I mean alarms. Cunning use of alarms.

His hard work and dedication will be a constant, essential part of our fortress, as he lovingly crafts the mechanisms which run every trap and every automated system in our fortress. His greatest works will destroy our greatest enemies. To FreakyCheeseMan!

Obsidian 19: The ghostly speardwarf is back. Will we ever be rid of this menace?A dwarven child is among the undead, now. A memorial is being erected as I write this. Must we never move past the events of last year?

The year is coming to a close. Soon spring will bring back the grass and the annoying sun, and we will be more compelled to remain in our fortress. It seems my time as overseer is also coming to an end - at the end of this year, at least for a while, I will retire to my jobs as mayor and as broker.


Granite 1: The end of my year is tolled in with passage into the Age of Legends. That's right, we killed so many dragons that right now our fortress is a thing of legends. Who's totally boss? Me totally boss!


Notes: Mine carts are a carefully calibrated thing. They dump stacks of 50 furniture onto one square, and move like five rocks at a time. If the current setup is buggy (the dwarves are moving rocks from close to the smelters to far from the smelters so they can put the rocks in the mine cart), please change the stockpiles close to the mine cart pickup area (F3, and west a little) to take from the furniture/magnetite stockpile. Stockpiles which take from links and have no links are great ways of controlling which stones get moved to a mine cart loading point. Try to streamline the mine cart transport system to get more stones going down, and get that weaponsmith trained! We need an armorer, as well.

DO NOT RELEASE THE VAMPIRE. She has been locked in that room for months, and she is still not hungry or thirsty. Vampires have potential for use as pump operators, so keep that in mind. A lever-pulling room would also well-suit the vampire, a creature of the night, an undead horror, and a mysterious, powerful creature which would not hesitate to tear your head off.

The Real Marauder, signing out.

Checkpoint.
